docs: add release notes DOC-1663 (#5692)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/release-notes/release-notes.md

<ReleaseNotesVersions />

## February 15, 2025 - Release 4.6.0

### Security Notices

- Review the [Security Bulletins](../security-bulletins/reports/reports.mdx) page for the latest security advisories.

### Palette Enterprise {#palette-enterprise-4-6-0}

#### Features

- Palette now supports edit and delete operations on
  [Cluster Profile Variables](../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables.md) in
  non-Edge and connected Edge clusters. Additionally, users can now review and edit the values of Cluster Profile
  Variables when they are applied to existing clusters. Check out the
  [Cluster Profile Variables](../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables.md) guide to
  learn more about this feature.

> - [Self-hosted Palette](../enterprise-version/enterprise-version.md) and Dedicated Palette SaaS installations now offer

Author: Added this under VerteX as well, so it got its own special call out.

  complete brand customization. System operators can apply custom logos and color schemes to the instances they manage
  by using the **Customize interface** tab in the **Administration** panel in the system control. Refer to the Customize

>   Palette Installation guide to learn more.

Author: I will add this separately in the VerteX section too and we can have 2 links.

  of `/v1/cloudconfigs` has been increased to 50 requests per second per IP address, and the maximum burst has been
  increased to 250 requests per second per IP address.

- The propagation of [Azure cloud credentials](../clusters/public-cloud/azure/azure-cloud.md) has been improved to
  ensure that Palette automatically updates cluster secrets. This improvement ensures that clusters with expired
  credentials are updated immediately to prevent disruptions.

#### Deprecations and Removals

### Edge

#### Features

- <TpBadge /> Palette now supports a two node architecture which provides High Availability (HA) mode. Users can access
  this feature by enabling a toggle which enables the high availability mode during cluster configuration. High
  availability mode replaces etcd with Postgres and [Kine](https://github.com/k3s-io/kine). Refer to the Two Node
  Architecture page for further details.

### VerteX

#### Features

- Includes all Palette features, improvements, breaking changes, and deprecations in this release. Refer to the
  [Palette section](#palette-enterprise-4-6-0) for more details.

### Automation

> - All Terraform cluster resources now support operations on

Author: Added that it will be edit and delete operations just like the UI.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

- Due to Google's
  [decision to deprecate](https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry/docs/transition/transition-from-gcr) the `gcr.io`
  container registry, we have added a new image registry that Palette agents will use to pull images as part of . The
  new registry is `us-docker.pkg.dev`. This was [announced](./annoucements.md#implemented-changes) as part of the
  Palette 4.5.3 release. If you have network restrictions in place, ensure that the new registry is allowed. The
  migration of images to this new registry is now complete. Redirects from the old registry to the new registry are in
  place, so no user actions are required at this time. Refer to the
  [Proxy Requirements](../enterprise-version/install-palette/#proxy-requirements) for a complete list of domains that
  must be allowed.

#### Kubernetes

> | Pack Name                                  | New Version |

Reviewer: Is there a reason we are listing them oldest > newest? Shouldn't it go newest > oldest?

Author: Did new > old now!

<ReleaseNotesVersions />

## February 15, 2025 - Release 4.6.0

### Security Notices

- Review the [Security Bulletins](../security-bulletins/reports/reports.mdx) page for the latest security advisories.

### Palette Enterprise {#palette-enterprise-4-6-0}

#### Features

- Palette now supports edit and delete operations on
  [Cluster Profile Variables](../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables.md) in

>   non-Edge and connected Edge clusters. Additionally, users can now review and edit the values of Cluster Profile

Reviewer 2: This isn't a rule in our style guide, but I feel we should always talk directly to users.

  Variables when they are applied to existing clusters. Check out the
  [Cluster Profile Variables](../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables.md) guide to
  learn more about this feature.

- [Self-hosted Palette](../enterprise-version/enterprise-version.md) and Dedicated Palette SaaS installations now offer
  complete brand customization. System operators can apply custom logos and color schemes to the instances they manage

>   by using the **Customize interface** tab in the **Administration** panel in the system control. Refer to the Customize

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  by using the **Customize interface** tab in the **Administration** panel of the system console. Refer to the Customize
```
maybe?

  Interface guide to learn more.

- The [Virtual Machine Migration Assistant](../vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/vm-migration-assistant.md) now
  allows TLS configuration for ingress resources, enhancing security through HTTPS access. This capability provides a
  unified and secure setup experience for users managing virtual machine migrations. Refer to the

>   [Create Migration Plans](../vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/create-migration-plans.md) guide to learn more.

Reviewer 2: This setting is configured during the profile creation, hence the suggested change.

#### Improvements

- The [rate limit](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/api/introduction/#rate-limits) for Palette API endpoints with a prefix
  of `/v1/cloudconfigs` has been increased to 50 requests per second per IP address, and the maximum burst has been
  increased to 250 requests per second per IP address.

- The propagation of [Azure cloud credentials](../clusters/public-cloud/azure/azure-cloud.md) has been improved to
  ensure that Palette automatically updates cluster secrets. This improvement ensures that clusters with expired
  credentials are updated immediately to prevent disruptions.

### Edge

#### Features

> - <TpBadge /> Palette now supports a two node architecture, which provides High Availability (HA) mode. Users can access
>   this feature by using a toggle to enable high availability mode during cluster configuration. High availability mode
>   replaces etcd with Postgres and [Kine](https://github.com/k3s-io/kine). Refer to the Two Node Architecture page for
>   further details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- <TpBadge /> Palette now supports a two node architecture, which provides a High Availability (HA) mode. Users can enable this feature by toggling the high availability mode during cluster configuration. In HA mode, etcd is replaced with Postgres and [Kine](https://github.com/k3s-io/kine). Refer to the Two Node Architecture page for
  further details.
```
maybe? also, are we using two node or two-node?

Author: I will use two-node as that's what Lenny is writing in his PR.

- The Terraform OCI registry resource, `spectrocloud_registry_oci`, now supports Zarf and Pack
  [OCI Registry](../registries-and-packs/registries/oci-registry/oci-registry.md) types. Previously, only Helm
  registries were supported. For more information, refer to the Spectro Cloud Terraform provider
  [documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/spectrocloud/spectrocloud/latest/docs).

- A new Terraform resource, `spectrocloud_resource_limit`, is now available for managing Palette
  [resource limits](../tenant-settings/palette-resource-limits.md). By default, a resource limit is configured in
  Palette with default values. Users can now update the limits with Terraform. For more information, refer to the
  Spectro Cloud Terraform provider
  [documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/spectrocloud/spectrocloud/latest/docs).

### Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO)

#### Improvements

The KubeVirt version in use is now v1.4.0. Other minor maintenance updates in support of Kubevirt 1.4.0 are also
included.

### Packs

#### Pack Notes

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

> - Palette support for <VersionedLink text="MicroK8s" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes-microk8s" /> 1.29 and 1.30 has been enhanced to provide airgap support, as well as deployments on [MAAS](../clusters/data-center/maas/maas.md) and [AWS](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/aws.md). Additionally, this update validates multi-node control planes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Palette's support for <VersionedLink text="MicroK8s" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes-microk8s" /> 1.29 and 1.30 has been enhanced to provide airgap support, as well as deployments on [MAAS](../clusters/data-center/maas/maas.md) and [AWS](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/aws.md). Additionally, this update validates multi-node control planes.
```

<ReleaseNotesVersions />

## February 16, 2025 - Release 4.6.0

### Security Notices

- Review the [Security Bulletins](../security-bulletins/reports/reports.mdx) page for the latest security advisories.

### Palette Enterprise {#palette-enterprise-4-6-0}

#### Features

- Palette now supports edit and delete operations on
  [Cluster Profile Variables](../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables.md) in
  non-Edge and connected Edge clusters. Additionally, you can now review and edit the values of Cluster Profile
  Variables when they are applied to existing clusters. Check out the
  [Cluster Profile Variables](../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables.md) guide to
  learn more about this feature.

- [Self-hosted Palette](../enterprise-version/enterprise-version.md) and Dedicated Palette SaaS installations now offer
  complete brand customization. System operators can apply custom logos and color schemes to the instances they manage
  by using the **Customize interface** tab in the **Administration** panel of the system console. Refer to the Customize
  Interface guide to learn more.

> - The [Virtual Machine Migration Assistant](../vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/vm-migration-assistant.md) now
>   allows TLS configuration for ingress resources, enhancing security through HTTPS access. This capability provides a
>   unified and secure setup experience for users managing virtual machine migrations. Refer to the
>   [Create Migration Plans](../vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/create-vm-migration-assistant-profile.md) guide to
>   learn more.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Replace with https://github.com/spectrocloud/librarium/pull/5692/files#r1955976575

  This improvement streamlines the user process of identifying and pulling the latest pack versions directly. Versions
  can still be defined explicitly. For more information, refer to the Spectro Cloud Terraform provider
  [documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/spectrocloud/spectrocloud/latest/docs).

- The `--validate` flag of the Palette [EC](../automation/palette-cli/commands/ec.md) command now supports validation of
  airgapped environments. Previously, only environments that had internet access were supported. Refer to the
  [Validate Environment](../automation/palette-cli/commands/ec.md#validate-environment) section for further information.

- The Terraform OCI registry resource, `spectrocloud_registry_oci`, now supports Zarf and Pack
  [OCI Registry](../registries-and-packs/registries/oci-registry/oci-registry.md) types. Previously, only Helm
  registries were supported. For more information, refer to the Spectro Cloud Terraform provider
  [documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/spectrocloud/spectrocloud/latest/docs).

### Virtual Machine Orchestrator (VMO)

> #### Improvements
> 
> The KubeVirt version in use is now v1.4.0. Other minor maintenance updates in support of Kubevirt 1.4.0 are also
> included.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Improvements

- The [Virtual Machine Migration Assistant](../vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/vm-migration-assistant.md) now
  allows TLS configuration for ingress resources, enhancing security through HTTPS access. This capability provides a
  unified and secure setup experience for users managing virtual machine migrations. Refer to the
  [Create a VM Migration Assistant Profile](../vm-management/vm-migration-assistant/create-vm-migration-assistant-profile.md) guide to
  learn more.

- The KubeVirt version in use is now v1.4.0. Other minor maintenance updates in support of Kubevirt 1.4.0 are also
included.

```
